Create Airbus case study (#9345)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/customers/airbus.md

> ---
> title: How Airbus deployed PostHog across 4,000 applications
> customer: Airbus
> logo: >-
>   https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/airbus_light_7d8cc90e62.png
> logoDark: >-
>   https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/airbus_dark_modified_8f1a80ceff.png
> featuredImage: >-
>   https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/airbus_8311e8ea0e.jpg
> industries:
>   - Aerospace
> users:
>   - Product
>   - Leadership
>   - Engineering
> toolsUsed:
>   - Surveys
>   - Product analytics
> date: 2024-9-12
> ---
> 
> As Europe’s largest aerospace company, [Airbus](https://www.airbus.com/en) is a pioneer in its field and one of the best known brands in the world. It's also one of the largest aerospace companies, with nearly 150,000 employees maintaining almost 10,000 individual applications - yet in 2023 Airbus’ User Behaviour Analytics team realized they faced a significant challenge when it came to tracking users.
> 
> Put simply, there was no unified tool for gathering data and each application would frequently use its own stack entirely. 
> 
> “Many of our 10,000 apps are just for internal usage, but around 4,000 of them have external users who come to us to buy aircraft or services,” explains Francois Toulouse, a Product Owner in Airbus’ User Behaviour Analytics team. “The challenge was that nobody was able to say who these users were, or what features they used. All we could do was look at login logs in Splunk to count them.”
> 
> As a result, Francois’ team realized that Airbus needed a single, dedicated tool with which to collect and analyze usage data from these 4,000 applications. He began researching potential tools such as Piwik Pro, Matomo, and Google Analytics — but each of these proved unusable at the scale Airbus needed them. 
> 
> “One of my colleagues wanted to use Matomo, but they eventually said we were too huge for them,” says Francois. “They ended up not even continuing the conversation with us because our scale was too big...and [we couldn’t use Google Analytics for GDPR reasons either](/blog/best-gdpr-compliant-analytics-tools).”
> 
> “That’s when we found PostHog — the only tool which seemed able to meet our needs in terms of scale.”
> 
> ### A support experience unlike those other SaaS tools
> 
> After selecting PostHog, Francois’ team started creating the hundreds of projects they would need to get started — but soon discovered that driving such massive adoption also created internal challenges. Each new project brought with it a new product owner, a new team, and a long list of admin tasks for them to complete, such as removing GeoIP details in order to comply with Airbus’ data privacy policies. 
> 
> “In order to drive mass adoption we knew we’d have to automate this process, so we reached out to PostHog’s support to start a conversation,” explains Francois. “But it wasn’t like it would be at other tech companies — very quickly we were speaking directly with the actual engineers that could help us, like Raquel.”
> 
> [Raquel, a full-stack engineer in PostHog’s growth team](https://posthog.com/community/profiles/28693), began building a solution to help Airbus onboard teams faster by only showing them the projects which are relevant to them. 
> 
> “Every time they spun up a new project there was a whole manual process,” explains Raquel. “With thousands of projects planned, that wasn’t ideal. Additionally, because the users log in with SSO and JIT provisioning, they didn’t want to rely on invite emails.”
> 
> As a result, Raquel extended [the PostHog API](/docs/api) in two ways to help address Airbus’ needs. First, she added project access so that invites would be attached to specific projects. Next she made invites automatically consume when a user logged in via JIT provisioning — so users are automatically added to relevant projects when they login and don't need invite emails at all. 
> 
> “Honestly, the support experience was really nice,” says Francois. “[Simon](https://posthog.com/community/profiles/28895) is always a great help too, telling us what we need to know. Compared to other tools I’ve used, the support has been perfect — and we were really happy to see Raquel could develop what we need for our scale.”
> 
> ### Adopting PostHog across over 4,000 applications at once
> 
> Now, with Airbus’ adoption growing and more projects starting on PostHog, Francois is looking to expand usage into other parts of the platform — such as [user surveys](https://posthog.com/surveys). 
> 
> “One of the things that makes PostHog such a great tool for us is that it includes everything we need in one place,” says Francois. “We can understand how people use applications with PostHog’s analytics, but we can also use surveys to measure [CSAT](https://posthog.com/templates/csat-survey), or [NPS](https://posthog.com/templates/nps-survey), or get our own UX scoring measurements.”
> 
> Combining surveys and analytics into a single tool also means that Airbus is able to unlock insights more easily than when relying on dozens of different point solutions. 
> 
> “We’ve made all sorts of discoveries since adopting PostHog,” says Francois. “Some of our product owners have found that features they’d been supporting actually aren’t used by users at all, or only by a few people. We can target these users with surveys to understand them more, or just decommission the features saves us time, but also money that we can put into other projects.”
> 
> “That’s one of the strongest benefits of PostHog, for us — that we’re able to save time and money by understanding our users more.”
> 

Author: ```suggestion
---
title: How Airbus deploys PostHog across 3,000 web and mobile apps
customer: Airbus
logo: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/airbus_light_7d8cc90e62.png
logoDark: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/airbus_dark_modified_8f1a80ceff.png
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/airbus_8311e8ea0e.jpg
industries:
  - Aerospace
users:
  - Product
  - Leadership
  - Engineering
toolsUsed:
  - Surveys
  - Product analytics
date: 2024-9-12
---

As Europe’s largest aerospace company, [Airbus](https://www.airbus.com/en) is a pioneer in its field and one of the best known brands in the world. It's also one of the largest aerospace companies, with nearly 150,000 employees maintaining almost 10,000 individual applications - yet in 2023 Airbus’ User Behaviour Analytics team realized they faced a significant challenge when it came to tracking users.

Put simply, there was no unified tool for gathering data and each application would frequently use its own stack entirely. 

"Many of our 10,000 apps are used for machine to machine data transfer but 3,000 are web and mobile applications used by Airbus & suppliers employees and 100 are dedicated to our end customers who come to us to buy aircraft and services," explains Francois Toulouse, the Product Owner of Airbus’ User Behaviour Analytics team. “The challenge was that nobody was able to say who these users were, or what features they used. All we could do was look at login logs in Splunk to count them on some applications.”

As a result, Francois’ team realized that Airbus needed a single, dedicated tool with which to collect and analyze usage data from these 3,000 applications. He began researching potential tools such as Piwik Pro, Matomo, and Google Analytics — but each of these proved unusable at the scale Airbus needed them. 

“One of my colleagues wanted to use Matomo, but they eventually said we were too huge for them,” says Francois. “They ended up not even continuing the conversation with us because our scale was too big...and [we couldn’t use Google Analytics for GDPR reasons either](/blog/best-gdpr-compliant-analytics-tools).”

“That’s when we found PostHog — the only tool which seemed able to meet our needs in terms of scale.”

### A support experience unlike those other SaaS tools

After selecting PostHog, Francois’ team started creating the hundreds of projects they would need to get started — but soon discovered that driving such massive adoption also created internal challenges. Each new project brought with it a new product owner, a new team, and a long list of admin tasks for them to complete, such as removing GeoIP details in order to comply with Airbus’ data privacy policies. 

“In order to drive mass adoption we knew we’d have to automate this process, so we reached out to PostHog’s support to start a conversation,” explains Francois. “But it wasn’t like it would be at other tech companies — very quickly we were speaking directly with the actual engineers that could help us, like Raquel.”

[Raquel, a full-stack engineer in PostHog’s growth team](https://posthog.com/community/profiles/28693), began building a solution to help Airbus onboard teams faster by only showing them the projects which are relevant to them. 

“Every time they spun up a new project there was a whole manual process,” explains Raquel. “With thousands of projects planned, that wasn’t ideal. Additionally, because the users log in with SSO and JIT provisioning, they didn’t want to rely on invite emails.”

As a result, Raquel extended [the PostHog API](/docs/api) in two ways to help address Airbus’ needs. First, she added project access so that invites would be attached to specific projects. Next she made invites automatically consume when a user logged in via JIT provisioning — so users are automatically added to relevant projects when they login and don't need invite emails at all. 

“Honestly, the support experience was really nice,” says Francois. “[Simon](https://posthog.com/community/profiles/28895) is always a great help too, telling us what we need to know. Compared to other tools I’ve used, the support has been perfect — and we were really happy to see Raquel could develop what we need for our scale.”

### Adopting PostHog across over 3,000 applications at once

Now, with Airbus’ adoption growing and more projects starting on PostHog, Francois is looking to expand usage into other parts of the platform — such as [user surveys](https://posthog.com/surveys). 

“One of the things that makes PostHog such a great tool for us is that it includes everything we need in one place,” says Francois. “We can understand how people use applications with PostHog’s analytics, but we can also use surveys to measure [CSAT](https://posthog.com/templates/csat-survey), or [NPS](https://posthog.com/templates/nps-survey), or get our own UX scoring measurements.”

Combining surveys and analytics into a single tool also means that Airbus is able to unlock insights more easily than when relying on dozens of different point solutions. 

“We’ve made all sorts of discoveries since adopting PostHog,” says Francois. “Some of our product owners have found that features they’d been supporting actually aren’t used by users at all, or only by a few people. We can target these users with surveys to understand them more, or just decommission the features saves us time, but also money that we can put into other projects.”

“That’s one of the strongest benefits of PostHog, for us — that we’re able to save time and money by understanding our users more.”
```
